which had a lot of descriptive geometry in it.
And then of course there were other courses, but those were the two main courses that all engineers had to take.
Did the students have any nickname for these two courses?
I'm sure they had all kind of vulgarity they could use for almost any course.
Did you have a nickname?
Not that I know of.
Did some of your colleagues have nicknames?
I don't remember hearing many engineering nicknames.
Alphabet Thompson, Momsmeang.
Do you remember any others in engineering?
Well, I don't think so, Haskell.
The reason those nicknames are so memorable is there's only about four or five of them on the campus.
Well, Bloody Morgan, Square Root Jackson, Cube Root Kent, Dr. Dan the Grade Point Man, Slick Al Price over Veterinary Medicine, Screamin' Al Nelson, Notes Nance, Jock Woods in Government and Political Science, D.B.
Cofer, Dusty Butt Cofer, Happy Harry Herth,
Harrison Hearth.
Those nicknames always intrigue me because I've always contended that they were, in fact, backhanded terms of affection.
I ain't going to admit that I really like the guy, but I do, so I give him this nickname.
And, of course, also, correct me if you disagree with me, many, many individuals all across society had nicknames then.
in the generation of our parents.
That's right.
There was Shorty and Dude.
If you didn't have a memorable name, you weren't memorable.
That's right.
W. Leo Daniel was Pappy.
There were many people like that.
Was this course considered a tough course by the students as far as you know?
We didn't have a lot of kids flunking, but yeah, they thought it was pretty demanding for us.
Now, in terms of grade point ratio, when you were an undergraduate, did you and your buddies calculate your grade point ratio like students do now?
Did you see us now calculate the grade points?
Oh, yes.
I didn't think so.
But, you know, I've got a 3.2.
Did you all speak in those terms?
Oh, yeah.
Back when I was in school, a C was the average grade.
Yes.
Just like the catalog says, it was an average grade.
And once in a while, somebody would get a D, and they weren't ashamed of that at all.
Of course, we had to make 10 points higher.
Back in those days, we had to have a 70 to get a D. I remember that.
I remember that.
While I'm talking on that, let me tell you the difference.
I want this on tape, as someone might recall.
Since I've been in the educational business, I've heard all these fuzzy-headed people talk about how we have so much more to learn and how we have this academic intelligence information explosion, how the world is just full of all this stuff.
We just can't get on learning at all.
Of course, at least 20% of our people now are functionally illiterate.
I don't know how we got that way, but
They talk about how much more we need to learn.
When I was in school, we had an 18-week semester.
Now we have one or two days beyond 15 weeks.
Now you might say, that doesn't matter.
Well, if that's the case, why don't we have a 10-week semester?
We used to have to make 70 to pass.
Now you can do it with 60.
I've heard grown people say, well, there's no difference in that.
You can make the grades wherever you want.
But it just makes sense to me that if you have a difference of 10 points, it ought to mean something.
We had to make seven.
We had to take PE four semesters and get zero hours, but that took our time.
And we had to take 18, 17, 18 hours per semester.
And your counselors would, boy, they liked your schedule and you were going to take that.
And we did.
Now the kids take more like 10 or 12.
So the difference in the academic load that these kids carry is substantially less.
And what made A&M so doggone outstanding?
The product they put out is the kids who came out the other end might not be real smart, or they might have some defects, but they were tough as hell.
They were tough.
They went through all that crap and somehow juggled everything and kept it afloat to come out.
So you went to the military.
That was the easiest damn game in the world.
If you can't have anyone back to duty, none of the guys in the military was the military as we were.
Oh, let's go back to that.
When you either went to summer camp,
or to active duty, did you realize the difference of your military preparation here at A&M compared to other ROTC programs?
Well, yeah.
Can you give any examples?
Well, you know, we lived in DOQs and barracks and we were at A&M.
You go to service and it's natural, you know, you got indoor plumbing and all that kind of stuff and it's a lot more convenient then.
And it was a step up and
Most of the guys who were our contemporaries had no idea at all about what the military was about.
Back to the quality, how did you talk for about 30 years?
38 years.
About how did the subject matter in your course change in that time?
It went from one of trying to
present drawings of how things are made to being a tool to how you creatively design something.
And take your ideas from the head, put it on paper so you can communicate in a creative fashion your ideas.
And then along came computers, and we want to know how can you use computers to do it mechanically by a keyboard rather than drawing with a pencil.
So those are the two major changes is design and computer graphics.
Now, and when you got here as a student, the engineer proudly carried, and I guess architects did in a few instances, proudly carried their slide rules.
And by the time you finished as a faculty member, some people may have had a handheld calculator and other technical
devices, and your course changed with those, in terms of the preparation of the student who came into your class, how did they compare in the mid-80s compared to the 50s?
They came in with more credentials, and on paper it looked a lot better, but probably were no better than the ones we had back before.
All those credentials we got
What do you call it?
Expanding?
Exploded?
There's some word that means overblown.
And really felt like a lot of our kids are missing a lot of fundamental understanding of school.
And as we all know, the public schools have come under great criticism and have many shortcomings and looks like it's here to stay for a while.
But our credentials of our students
read much better, but in reality in the classroom, I didn't expect them.
I didn't notice them being that much better.
What we don't have now that we used to have are these guys, and I say guys because that's all we had, male types.
They were here trying to be survivors, but they were strongly directed.
They would hold in there, and the kids today will not.
You know, there are a lot of kids that walk in the class finding who's teaching and walk out.
We didn't do it in that day.
That was our class and that was our teacher.
Boy, he wasn't going to get the best of us.
Did...
Did the background in terms of geography and so forth, the chain of the students change much in those 30 years plus?
Like where the students came from?
Well, heck yeah.
Foreign students are numerous, and foreign faculty are numerous.
And if we let our borders down, we'd be overrun with foreign students.
What about here in Texas?
where more of them, was a larger percentage of them urban in the later years?
I think Harris County furnished the greatest number of students then, and they do now, always will.
And whatever you call them, I guess there's some country people in Houston, but that's the biggest city we have.
So you'd have to call them city people.
I think everyone's a city person now.
Oh, I agree.
There's no such thing as a country person.
Did anybody in any
position of authority or assumed authority attempt to tell you ever what you should teach or not teach?
No.
So nobody ever tried to look over you?
Well, yeah.
We get together and work a course syllabi and stuff like that, but as an instructive disciplinary sort of
Guidance?
No.
No dean, no department head ever said, uh-uh, do this, that.
Oh, no.
Of course, I wasn't going to be one that needed to be told.
Did you have some favorite colleagues that you cherished during all these years?
Some friends whose company you enjoyed?
Oh, yeah.
All those people.
Every one of them, sure.
But who were some of them that you most cherished?
Well, the guy I left the program with was named Richard Squirani.
And, you know, Stark and Oliver Cleland and Matt Whiteacre and Bob Bolton.
Ranstle was in our department, but he had gone to the dean's office by the time I was teaching over there.
And, yeah, all of those guys were nice fellows.
Describe Ranstle as a student advisor and counselor.
All I know is sort of standing around the edge of the perimeter when he was talking to kids, but that seemed to be what he was most gifted at, talking to kids.
He seemed to be a guy who truly loved talking to kids.
He did a pretty good job remembering where they were and just liked to hold forth and talk to them.
He had them in his office all the time.
They were very lucky to have him.
And I was lucky to have him too because I had much rather teach kids and counsel kids.
Because they used to divide freshmen up.
We'd have about 10 apiece per semester.
And the kid would come over and, all right, we're going to talk.
And you have this course and I have trouble.
And you need to study and do that, blah, blah, blah.
And you come back next week.
Well, I didn't do any good.
Well, what's wrong?
Well, try studying with an album.
Try that next week.
You go on and on and on.
You finally feel that you can appreciate the counselors who do that full-time because you seem to have these kids that would rather talk about their problem than do something about it.
And Rams will do a good job of that.
But he came along back in the day when he did have send something home.
Now, back when you were a student, if you had had a real problem that you needed some advice on, who would you have turned to?
Some of our classmates.
There.
And what I'm really asking, was there someone, a Randall-like advisor counselor then that you... I'm sure there must have been people that had titles like that, but I never thought it would pay out.
I just thought he was there more or less for a job, and they justified their position, and they were there.
But all in all, they can't take a test for him.
I mean, what the hell do I need to say?
You can do it, kid.
Get in here and do it.
You know, I feel silly having someone to tell me that, and I say, oh, that's all it took.
Just tell me to go get him.
I say, I know one.
Describe for somebody that was not there to see it, registration, student registration at one of the long semesters, fall or spring.
Long semester registration always began with taking a lot of big sheet of cards that you fill out your name and address and home address on and what dorm room you're living in.
And you do that about a dozen times.
And then these were perforated and they'd tear apart, and somewhere or other they'd go to different places, and you'd pay your fees to do that.
But it seemed like you had about 30 minutes of just filling out forms each and every time.
And then you had a big line, and then they had it by letters A through C are going to come through this door.
And you finally make it in at certain prescribed times.
Now where?
The door to what building?
Sebiza Hall.
And sometimes they had a couple of doors, and they said that if you're
Last name begins with this letter.
You'll come in at 10.
If it begins with this, you come in at 8.
So they had you staggered out during the day, so it was a little bit tricky sometimes to get a section that you needed, because they would fill up, but they were fairly flexible, I think, where they could maybe in some cases add additional sections.
Then we'd go to table to table.
We'd go to English to get an English course, and go to the engineering table for that particular course, and we'd go to architecture for that course,
All the courses we took, we'd go table to table, stand in line, we'd come up and ask for a section, they'd write your name down, and they'd give you some kind of a slip that you'd go out with, and at the tail end of registration, they'd take all your slips, figure your fees, you'd turn down all these cards you filled out, and the deans obviously had to sign up on your program that you were taking that semester, and that would do it.
It took, I guess, about an hour to do the whole thing.
And after you became a faculty member, that process remained the same for a long time, didn't it?
I don't remember now exactly when I switched.
I must stay there until about 1970 or so.
Because I remember Sebesa, occasionally in G. Riley White, particularly in the summer.
Back to when you were a faculty member.
Describe your office.
How big was it and where was it?
The office I had as a
Let's see, starting over in Anchor Hall in the old building where we were over there.
I was over in Anchor Hall, I guess, one year before they moved out.
The first thing they did over there, they put a new roof on it and then moved us out and tore it down.
But my office area was about the size of this room.
I guess that'd be about 15, about 20-something, a lot like that.
And we had about four desks in it.
Each faculty member had a desk in some corner of the room.
And it was sort of a bulletin arrangement.
And then they moved us over where we went to what is called the new engineering building.
And that was tall cotton, I guess.
And I had a... Usually when you move, you go into smaller quarters.
We had a room about the size of...
Yeah, about the size of his carpet here, and about three of us had this, didn't it?
And... Now, the new engineering building, that's not Zachary.
No, the new engineering building is right across the street from Ag Engineering.
Oh, yes.
Right behind Chemistry and right in that area.
Sort of looks out in the Ag building.
And that's called the new engineering building.
That's where the dean was on the second floor.
And Mickey McGuire was on the second floor with him in the Ransel head office there.
So, we all...
At my rank, instructor, we were all stuck together in this bullpen.
And senior faculty had little offices a little bit bigger on their desk with a chair and a file cabinet.
Now, as you were in your earliest years, who was the senior person in terms of longevity in the department?
Was there any kind of grandfather type?
Yeah.
the time I came on board, it looked like everybody was close to being a grandfather.
The guy who was Striegel was, I guess he was about, when I was on board there, he must have been about 60, I guess, or something in that range of age.
Had another guy about 58, 59,
two or three others in their fifties.
And you and your colleagues thought they were ancient, of course, of those years.
Now, let's jump now to the end of your career.
Where were y'all quartered then?
We were in, I think it was called the TTI Building, Engineering TTI Building, and it was next door, and it had a lab building attached to it.
It was right behind the Petroleum Engineering.
But behind the engineering, what is that name?
That's the guy in Tyler.
Anyway, it's behind the DNC engineering building.
It's called the TTI engineering building.
There's some cantankerous guys from the board direction for a long time.
Weismaker.
Yeah, Weismaker.
So he had a building, and it was right next to, between that building and Zachary, and we were in that eight-story building.
Did you ever have much overlap with John Calhoun?
If so, describe him.
John Calhoun is one of those guys I haven't mentioned before that I have always had great admiration for.
I agree.
John is a guy that has not changed in appearance since the day I first saw him.
And I don't know, I think he died and he has some robot he left behind that looked like him because he has not changed in any doggone way.
But I respect him as a guy who is smart and he's under control.
I never have heard somebody say, you hear what that doggone
fool John Calhoun said, just like you hear what that guy Earl might have said, but he didn't hear that about Calhoun, and I had great admiration for him and admired him, and he rose to the top in any group he was in.
So I had great respect for John, and I consider him a good friend.
What, try to review in your thinking the whole span, what were the things that A&M did right?
What were the decisions, the practices, the policies?
Boy, that is a hard question, Haskell.
I think what A&M did right was what made them what they were, is just being A&M and being deliberate in any changes that they made and having some strong
senior people that folks felt like, boy, if you're at A&M and that guy there said it, you'd put that in the bank.
And that solid respect that came from A&M before we started this concept that a lot of academicians say, hey, I got an idea.
Why don't we just throw everything out and start off with a clean slate?
We'll just pretend we don't have any background or any experience at all.
We're going to come up with this nice, keen idea how the
Everybody ought to be handled and how all the freshmen ought to be handled or how all the seniors ought to be handled or not handled.
And you have to really resist and fight to keep somebody from, you know, throwing the baby out with a wash.
Because I always assumed that everything ADM did came about from experience and from reason and sanity.
And it was an evolutionary process.
And we didn't just wake up one day and be where we were, but we had gotten there because we worked hard at being in that station.
But there was a group of people who came on board.
maybe even with the dictate of coming in and doing something different.
We once in a while would come up with that way of thinking, and sometimes it surprises me.
I see some people I thought were pretty stable that would make those suggestions.
I think A&M having the respect across the state, a lot of people made fun of A&M, and yeah, a bunch of Aggies wearing uniforms and stuff like that, but there was a great deal of respect for the students of A&M,
And the people who taught school down here and our graduates did damn good.
So I don't know how you could improve on a situation like that.
If you have respect as a student and as a faculty member and as an employee after you leave school, that's as good as it gets.
Did you have any personal reaction to co-education, non-compulsory core?
All of us hated it.
None of us wanted it, but we knew we had to have it.
And President Rutter, any questions?
uh evaluation of him yeah i described rudder as a man who never did anything that he didn't truly believe in as being the best thing to do whatever he did he did it because he had one motive because he felt that was the best thing to do and he was a man of the hour when he came along and he made a m marks behind
the banner of Let's Go Co-Ed, and matter of fact, he did it and got so much support, he didn't realize how much support he had.
He almost got run over by the parade.
But Rutter was the man that made it work, and no one else, I don't think in the state, could have done the job that he did.
I agree with you.
He came down here with his own constituency.
So when Earl Rutter was talking, he was bigger than just some.
Jay who had got a Ph.D.
degree.
He was an important celebrity.
I always say that no one could point to him as not being an Aggie or a Texan or that he was a fuddy-daddy Ph.D.
from somewhere way away that was just passing through or that he didn't work hard or that... He was a bonafide hero.
Yeah, yeah.
Let's see, did you have any evaluation of Dr. Williams, of Jack Williams?
No, I shook hands with him occasionally and he might have known who I was.
I heard a lot of people brag on him, but from the distance I was from him, I wasn't in a position to evaluate him much.
I always sort of felt like he was giving more praise than he might have deserved because it never trickled down to my level how outstanding he was.
So that's about all I can say.
Right.
As you review that same third of the century, can you think of any decisions that A&M made which now in hindsight maybe shouldn't have made?
Boy, that's difficult to run that 40 years through my brain.
Again, recall that they've hired some people that turned out to be duds, and no need to tell their names, but they've hired some people that had all kinds of credentials.
And you've got to finally realize that credentials are
can be falsified or they don't really tell the story.
I mean, a lot of people have some credentials that in a particular job at A&M aren't good.
All right, let's see.
As we get near the end of all this, what are some of your proudest Aggie moments, either as a student or a faculty member or now a retiree?
I don't think I have any real single high points.
I've always been extremely proud of A&M, and I think just the stability that A&M had, and I guess if there's a mistake of it, can be generalized A&M made, and I don't know how you get away from it, is somehow damaging that continuity, where you have stability and continuity where people
in position and what happens down here is expected and desirable when it does happen.
I think we've gone through some times where we've experimented a little bit too much with our program.
But I don't have any key points.
I think my pride in AM is just being a part of AM because I always thought I hired a bunch of part-time graduate students to teach on occasion.
God deliver me from drafting someone to teach.
Sometimes that is done.
Well, the dean said, yeah, you go down there and see Earl.
They put you in the classroom.
The guy said, yeah, I don't know if I'm going to teach this stuff or not, but I always thought that someone who had a chance to teach the A&M would have something he could brag about the rest of his life.
And nearly everybody that I had working for me after they had taught felt that way.
But it is possible.
For someone to be drafted, and once you get in that situation where you got some guy you're sort of trying to cram in a square hole, they drag their feet.
But I think A&M, being what it was, as stable and as structured as A&M was, and having the good people that it had and the good record that it had, I just think it just made for pride all the way through it.
And it disappointed me when we got a little bit away from it and we had people who came on board who didn't show up at the office
people you couldn't count on to do what they said they were going to do.
You got a new dean who said, well once in a while he comes in, but Wednesday's his day, he doesn't show up much, and when he does he leaves early and so forth so on.
That comes into play now.
You take a guy like Dane Benson, if you had three guys that you wanted him to show up for and give a talk to, if it was a 30 minute talk or an hour talk, he'd be there.
All you had to do was tell him where and when and he would show up.
And he was a businessman on the campus.
three major jobs.
And since he left, I guess they hired five administrators to fill in on what he was doing by himself.
As you look back, what did it mean to you that you went to school at Texas A&M?
Well, it was pretty much a rehash of what I got through saying it was one of those things that you felt like you were just superior to everybody else.
You had proven something besides just going to school and passing courses.
Putting up with all the horsemen here was more of a challenge than what you were prouder of than just making the grades.
A kid goes to school now and lives over here in the third floor of some apartment two miles off campus and takes seven years to graduate.
And I don't care what his grades are, he didn't get what we got.
I think I agree with you.
Like, I wish that we didn't have so many living off campus.
We've got kids that have never done anything that they didn't want to do.
That's right.
And everything we did, we didn't want to do.
What are some of your favorite Aggie stories, tales, anecdotes?
You know, I'm the worst interview in the world since I created so much of that stuff.
I don't pay much attention to it.
I don't even read funny papers when I was a cartoonist for 33 years.
But don't you have some where they're, you know, like, I know you're not going to believe this, but this really did happen, or once upon a time?
Yeah, we had all sort of crazy things happen.
They're sort of childish, and, you know, they happen anywhere and anytime.
It's just not that important as a life that I can recall.
You know, we've had these things.
Oh, yeah.
Went one time on a...
track team when we were riding one of these long cars that had a bunch of seats in them and Colonel Anderson was driving in, I forget who, Darren Hooper and somebody sitting up in the front seat and he drove that damn thing in low gear almost all the way to, what's the town down here, not Massville, was it?
Absoe.
And the car, he said, boy this car doesn't need to pick it up, driving along in that
And that's just, you know, anecdotes sort of thing.
And finally the guys up front were just about to cave in because they wouldn't tell him he was in low gear.
And you have those sort of things that weren't planned and weren't set up and they weren't pranks, but just natural things that occur.
And he finally found out about it.
It's just that chunk of life that happens to everybody everywhere.
It has nothing to do with it being in.
Did any of the students ever try to pull any prank on you as a teacher?
that you were called in class or near class or anything?
Oh, sometimes I'd write city stuff on a blackboard or something like that.
Good natured fun, but nothing of any seriousness.
I had a roommate, Bobby Jack Rose, he was in shop butter.
This kind of stuff I don't like with the band.
We were in Hart Hall and he always had these fenders, you know, where you combed your hair
Did all this all the time.
It was back in Day of the Duck Tales and all that.
And he was the first thing he did to come in the room and start combing his hair, and they teased him about that all the time.
So one of the jerks next door in our suite came over and took the mirror out of the medicine cabinet, turned the thing around backwards, put it back in.
So this is going to be a good prank.
It took him 30 minutes to do that.
For the impact, it would last 10 seconds, maybe.
You walk in the mirror, and you don't see yourself.
take some scotch tape and cover the papers on it.
He did this.
And I walked in and said, now, guy, you're going to have to come back in and turn that thing around.
Now, if you break it and get us in trouble, you know, we've got to go talk to the real property people and get it straightened out and they'll fuss at us and so forth and so on.
Yeah, well, I'll be okay.
So he did that and he had his four-second